# python-challenge
This is a project organizing data and calculating averages, totals, and maximum and minimum values of profits and losses from financial records for a company, and election results from a small, rural town.  All project components are stored locally in a local directory in the same name as this repository.

PyBank includes a Resource folder containing the CSV file with profit and loss amounts and dates, a Python file with the code, and an Analysis folder with a text file displaying the results of the calculations.  PyBank reads in the CSV file and stores the header of the dataset.  It calculates the number of months included in the dataset using the enumerate function.  The net total for profits and losses is calculated using an if/else conditional statement, and the profits and losses over the time period are calculated and added to a list that is used to calculate the average change over the time period with a for loop.  The greatest increase and decrease in profits are also calculated using the same list in a for loop.  All results print to the terminal and are exported to the text file in the Analysis folder in the PyBank directory.

PyPoll includes a Resource folder containing the CSV data file with voter IDs, counties and candidate names, a Python file with the code, and an Analysis folder with a text file displaying the results for total votes, the totals and percentages of votes for each of the three candidates, and the winner of the election. It uses a for loop to calculate the total number of votes and prints the result to the terminal and exports it to the text file in the Analysis folder in the PyPoll directory.  This section is unfinished but will also include a list containing the candidates who recieved votes, the percentage and total number of votes each candidate won,and the winner of the election based on popular vote.  These will be printed to the terminal and exported to the Analysis text file.

I think that dictionaries could have been utilized in both PyBank and PyPoll to facilitate calculations and with printing the results correctly to the terminal.  I hope to return to the project at a later time to fix this.  I also intend to use the float data type to adjust the result for the average change in profit in PyBank.

Credit to tutor Justin Moore for assistance with using the enumerate function to calculate the total number of months for the PyBanks profits and losses.
